The examples that we investigated in
discretes or combinatorial planning were quite simple.
They were two-dimensional examples of limited size.
There are times when you can simplify your environment
and robot to a two-dimensional representation.
For instance, a vacuum robot traversing somebody's house.
In such a case, there isn't a need for a complex three-dimensional representation,
as a little robot can't do anything more than
translate and rotate on the 2D plane that is the floor.
But there will also be times when you find yourself limited by
the two-dimensional representation and will need to work in a three-dimensional world,
with robots that have six degrees of freedom or more.
Such a scenario is a lot more challenging to perform path planning in.
It may be possible to apply the algorithms that you learned in the previous lesson,
however, the efficiency of these algorithms becomes more and more critical.
Performing a complete discretization of the entire space and
applying a graph search algorithm to the space may be too costly.
To tackle the path planning problems of larger size and greater dimension,
there exists alternate algorithms that fall under
the umbrella of sample-based path planning.
Instead of conducting a complete discretization of the configuration space,
these algorithms randomly sample the space hoping that
the collection of samples will adequately represent the configuration space.
Sample based path planning is the first topic that you'll learn in this lesson.
The second is probabilistic path planning,
which we'll look at how we can explicitly consider
the uncertainty of robot motion when planning paths.